---
layout: post
title: Spring 2026 Update
date: 2026-04-30
description:
tags: spring-update
categories:
---

As an undergraduate with plans to go to graduate school, it is easy to fixate on classes and forget how much freedom you actually have. With the internet, you have access to academic articles, old class archives, lab websites, and ORCID/Google Scholar profiles. With these resources, you have the ability to become more knowledgeable in the subjects that interest you. This makes the process of writing and sending cold emails much less intimidating. **Google Scholar is not the only way to learn about a research topic.**

This past semester, I took a Marine Microbial Ecology seminar run by <a href="https://bios.asu.edu/about/team-members/craig-carlson/">Dr. Craig Carlson</a>. Each week, a student presented an ARMS review paper. I presented two articles: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-marine-010816-060617">Mixotrophy in the Marine Plankton</a> and <a href="https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-earth-040523-020630">Microbial Ecology to Ocean Carbon Cycling: From Genomes to Numerical Models</a>. The second article was particularly interesting to me, and I enjoyed doing a deep dive on the topic. I wanted to learn more about the intersection of microbial 'omics data and biogeochemical models, so I sent a few cold emails.

Last month, I accepted an undergraduate research position in the <a href="https://themmarlab.com/">MMAR Lab</a> at University of Texas at Austin! I will be working on a project that investigates the relative abundance of mixotrophs in response to environmental and ecological gradients in the ocean. This project heavily involves coding in R, so I will be spending the next few weeks exploring a few oceanographic datasets and getting more comfortable with the programming language.

I'm going to be adding more resources and organizing my website over the summer, so stay tuned.

That's it for now. Thanks for reading!
